Shan Chen's Homepage
Home
Publications
Contact
Shan Chen
Tenure-Track Associate Professor
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Southern University of Science and Technology
Biography
In August 2022, I joined the Southern University of Science and Technology (SUSTech), Shenzhen, China, as a tenure-track assistant professor. I obtained my Ph.D. degree from Georgia Tech under the supervision of Alexandra (Sasha) Boldyreva in 2020. Then, I did my postdoc in the Cryptoplexity group led by Marc Fischlin at TU Darmstadt.
My research interests lie in cryptography and information security, and my current focus is on real-world cryptography. I am most passionate about analyzing deployed or soon-to-be-deployed security protocols and developing provably secure and practically efficient cryptographic solutions.
I am seeking self-motivated students and postdocs for our Applied Cryptography Group. Please feel free to contact me if you are interested in working with me.
* If you are interested in pursuing a graduate degree with me and wonder what you would expect from that, this article about the Ph.D. experience might be very helpful and you can regard the master’s experience as a simplified version of that.
Interests
Cryptography
Information Security
Education
PhD in Computer Science, 2020
Georgia Institute of Technology
MEng in Computer Science and Technology
Tsinghua University
BSc in Mathematics and Applied Mathematics
Beijing Normal University
Recent Publications
Quickly discover relevant content by filtering publications.
Shan Chen, Marc Fischlin (2024). Integrating Causality in Messaging Channels. In EUROCRYPT 2024 (to appear).
PDF
Manuel Barbosa, Alexandra Boldyreva, Shan Chen, Bogdan Warinschi (2021). Provable Security Analysis of FIDO2. In CRYPTO 2021.
PDF Cite Video
Shan Chen, Samuel Jero, Matthew Jagielski, Alexandra Boldyreva, Cristina Nita-Rotaru (2021). Secure Communication Channel Establishment: TLS 1.3 (over TCP Fast Open) versus QUIC. In Journal of Cryptology 2021.
PDF Cite
Shan Chen, Samuel Jero, Matthew Jagielski, Alexandra Boldyreva, Cristina Nita-Rotaru (2019). Secure Communication Channel Establishment: TLS 1.3 (over TCP Fast Open) vs. QUIC. In ESORICS 2019.
PDF Cite
Shan Chen, Rodolphe Lampe, Jooyoung Lee, Yannick Seurin, John Steinberger (2018). Minimizing the Two-Round Even–Mansour Cipher. In Journal of Cryptology 2018.
PDF Cite
SEE ALL PUBLICATIONS
Service
Program Committee: PKC 2023
Contact
chens3@sustech.edu.cn
1088 Xueyuan Blvd, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518055
Enter South Tower of CoE Building and take the stairs to Office 614 on Floor 6
© 2024 Me. This work is licensed under CC BY NC ND 4.0
Published with Hugo Blox Builder — the free, open source website builder that empowers creators.