陈伟坚
无联系信息
电话： +86 0755-36881023
邮箱： chanw@sz.tsinghua.edu.cn
个人简历
教学
研究领域
研究成果
奖励荣誉
概况
Dr. Chan is Professor and Co-Deputy Director of the Tsinghua-Berkeley Shenzhen Institute, Tsinghua University, China. Prior to joining Tsinghua, he served on the faculty of the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI), Troy, NY.  Dr. Chan has served as the lead editor of the 2017 Winter Simulation Conference, co-editor of the 2015 Winter Simulation Conference, program chair of the 2013 Industrial and System Engineering Research Conference, editor of the IEEE Conference on Automation Science and Engineering, and associate editor of the IIE Transactions, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, and Asia-Pacific Journal of Operational Research. In addition, Dr. Chan has served as program committee for severalother international conferences, referee for a number of journals and conference proceedings, panelist for U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF), Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF), and Macau Science and Technology Development Fund (FDCT). 

Opening:
Postdoctoral Researcher Position
Two postdoctoral researcher positionsare currently open:one in big-data analytics and the other operations research. The ideal candidate should have a Ph.D. degree in one of the following areas:
- Industrial Engineering and/or Operations Research
- Statistics
- Computer Science
- Electrical Engineering
Interested applicants please send a CV to Prof. Chan’s email listed above.
Graduate Student Position
Our group is expanding continuously. We are looking for excellent Ph.D. and Master’s students like YOU!If you meet at least two of the following conditions, you should apply:
1. Strong Math skill
2. Very good at Statistics
3. Taken and did well in advanced courses in Operations Research, Mathematics, and Statistics
4. Conducted projects related to our research areas
5. Have tons of “crazy” academic ideas, and are self-motivated and perseverant

教育经历
2005, Ph.D.,Industrial Engineering and Operations Research, University of California, Berkeley
2001, M.S., Industrial Engineering and Operations Research, University of California, Berkeley
2000, M.E., Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University
1997, B.E.,Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University
1997, Second B.E. in Mechanical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University

工作经历
2017 – present, Professor and Co-Deputy Director, Tsinghua-Berkeley Shenzhen Institute, Tsinghua University